=for
Copyright 2008 Cyril Brulebois <cyril.brulebois@enst-bretagne.fr>
Licensed under the same terms as the hugin package itself.
=end


=head1 NAME

autooptimiser - Optimize image positions


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<autooptimiser> [options] I<project.pto>

(B<-> can be specified to read the project from stdio.)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TODO.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-o> I<file.pto>

Output file. If obmitted, stdout is used.

=back


Optimisation options (if not specified, no optimisation takes place):

=over

=item B<-a>

Auto align mode, includes various optimisation stages, depending on
the amount and distribution of the control points

=item B<-p>

Pairwise optimisation of yaw, pitch and roll, starting from first
image

=item B<-n>

Optimize parameters specified in script file (like PToptimizer).

=back


Postprocessing options:

=over

=item B<-l>

Level horizon (works best for horizontal panos)

=item B<-s>

Automatically select a suitable output projection and size

=back


Other options:

=over

=item B<-q>

Quiet operation (no progress is reported)

=item B<-v> I<HFOV>

Specify horizontal field of view of input images. Used if the .pto
file contains invalid HFOV values (autopano-SIFT writes .pto files
with invalid HFOV)

=back



When B<-a>, B<-l>, and B<-s> options are used together, an operation similar
to the one of the "Align" button in hugin is performed.


=head1 AUTHORS

Written by Pablo d'Angelo. Also contains contributions from Douglas Wilkins, Ippei Ukai, Ed Halley, Bruno Postle, Gerry Patterson and Brent Townshend.


This manpage was written by Cyril Brulebois
<cyril.brulebois@enst-bretagne.fr> and is licensed under the same
terms as the hugin package itself.
