=head1 NAME

celeste_standalone - Cloud identification

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<celeste_standalone> [options] I<image1> I<image2> I<[..]>


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Celeste has been trained using Support vector machine techniques to identify clouds in photos and remove control points from these areas.  celeste_standalone is a command-line tool with all the same functionality as Celeste in hugin.

Simple usage is to just 'clean' an existing project file:

 celeste_standalone -i project.pto -o project.pto


=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-i> <filename>

Input Hugin PTO file. Control points over SVM threshold will be removed before
being written to the output file. If -m is set to 1, images in the file will be
also be masked.

=item B<-o> <filename>

Output Hugin PTO file. Default: '<filename>_celeste.pto'

=item B<-d> <filename>

SVM model file. Default: 'data/celeste.model'

=item B<-s> <int>

Maximum dimension for re-sized image prior to processing. A higher value will
increase the resolution of the mask but is significantly slower. Default: 800

=item B<-t> <float>

SVM threshold. Raise this value to remove fewer control points, lower it to
remove more. Range 0 to 1. Default: 0.5

=item B<-m> <1|0>

Create masks when processing Hugin PTO file. Default: 0

=item B<-f> <string>

Mask file format. Options are PNG, JPEG, BMP, GIF and TIFF.  Default: PNG

=item B<-r> <1|0>

Filter radius. 0 = large (more accurate), 1 = small (higher resolution mask,
slower, less accurate). Default: 0

=item B<-h>

Print usage.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Written by Tim Nugent.
