=for
Copyright 2008 Cyril Brulebois <cyril.brulebois@enst-bretagne.fr>
Licensed under the same terms as the hugin package itself.
=end


=head1 NAME

fulla - Correct lens distortion, vignetting and chromatic aberration

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fulla> [options] I<inputfile(s)>


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Apply radial or flat-field vignetting correction as well as geometrical radial
distortion and transversal chromatic aberration correction.

fulla can be used to batch correct a large number of files. Radial distortion coefficients can be read from a PTLens database (only database version 4.2 is supported).

Vignetting correction is done the same way as described in the nona script file documentation.
Vignetting correction can be done based on a flat-field or a radial scaling.

Vignetting correction by flat-field division:
                        I = I / c,    c = flat-field / mean(flat-field)

Radial vignetting correction:
                        I = I / c,    c = a + b*r^2 + c*r^4 + d*r^6


The radial distortion correction is identical to the one implemented by PanoTools:

r_new = a*r^4 + b*r^3 + c*r^2 + d*r   [1]

Since transversal chromatic aberrations (TCA) leads to differently scaled objects in the
red, green and blue channel, it can be corrected by scaling the red and blue channel
so that they match the green channel. Most applications, like Photoshop or Picture Window Pro
offer TCA correction by linear scaling. This is equal to varying the d parameter in equation [1].

See http://hugin.sf.net/tutorials/tca for a method to determine these parameters.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-g> I<a:b:c:d>

Radial distortion coefficient for all channels, (a, b, c, d)

=item B<-b> I<a:b:c:d>

Radial distortion coefficients for blue channel, (a, b, c, d). This is
applied on top of the B<-g> distortion coefficients, use for TCA corr

=item B<-r> I<a:b:c:d>

Radial distortion coefficients for red channel, (a, b, c, d). This is
applied on top of the B<-g> distortion coefficients, use for TCA corr

=item B<-p>

Try to read radial distortion coefficients (usually supplied
using -g) from the PTLens database. The environment variable PTLENS_PROFILE
should point to the profile.txt file. Since newer version of the PTLens database
are incompatible with fulla, download the PTLens database from the hugin sourceforge
website instead: http://www.sf.net/projects/hugin

=item B<-m> I<Canon>

Camera manufacturer, for PTLens database query. EXIF data inside JPEG files is read, if this
option is not given

=item B<-n> I<Camera>

Camera name, for PTLens database query. EXIF data inside JPEG files is read, if this
option is not given.

=item B<-l> I<Lens>

Lens name, for PTLens database query if not specified, a list of
possible lenses is displayed

=item B<-d> I<50>

Specify focal length in mm, for PTLens database query. EXIF data inside JPEG files is read, if this
option is not given.

=item B<-s>

Do not rescale the image to avoid black borders.

=item B<-f> I<filename>

Vignetting correction by flat-field division

    I = I / c,    c = flat-field / mean(flat-field)


=item B<-c> I<a:b:c:d>

Radial vignetting correction by division:

    I = I / c,    c = a + b*r^2 + c*r^4 + d*r^6

=item B<-i> I<value>

Gamma of input data. used for gamma correction before and after
flat-field correction

=item B<-t> I<n>

Number of threads that should be used during processing

=item B<-h>

Display help summary.

=item B<-o> I<name>

Set output filename. If more than one image is given, the name will be
uses as suffix (default suffix: _corr)

=item B<-e> I<value>

Compression of the output files

=over

=item For JPEG output: 0-100

=item For tiff output: DEFLATE, LZW

=back

=for TODO: A blank line seems to be missing here.
=end

=item B<-v>

Verbose

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

Written by Pablo d'Angelo. Also contains contributions from Douglas Wilkins, Ippei Ukai, Ed Halley, Bruno Postle, Gerry Patterson and Brent Townshend.


This man page was written by Cyril Brulebois
<cyril.brulebois@enst-bretagne.fr> and is licensed under the same
terms as the hugin package itself.
