=head1 NAME

geocpset - adds control points based on geometric position

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<geocpset> [I<-o output.pto>] I<input.pto>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<geocpset> is a tool for panoramas which contains featureless images, e.g.
sky images. In this images a control point detector does not find control
points. B<geocpset> analyses the positions of the images in project files.
Then it adds control points to these images which are not connected by
control points. The control points are set only be the geometric positions
of the images and not by the image content. So B<geocpset> should only
used with projects which have assigned rough image positions.

=head1 USAGE

=over

=item
B<geocpset> I<-o output.pto> I<input.pto>

=back

If the I<--output/-o> switch is missing then the suffix "_geo" is added to
the filename.

The indented workflow is

=over

=item #1
First create project file

pto_gen -o project.pto *.jpg

=item #2
Then assign rough positions to images

pto_var --set y=i*20-40,p=0,r=0 -o project.pto project.pto

=item #3
Now run a "normal" control point detector, e.g. only on overlapping images

cpfind --prealigned -o project.pto project.pto

=item #4
And finally connect all unconnected images

geocpset -o project.pto project.pto

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-o|--output> I<output.pto>

Output a pto file with the given filename. If not given it will append
"_geo" to the input filename.

=item B<-e|--each-overlap>

By default B<geocpset> adds only control points to unconnected images.
With this switch you can force to add a geometric control point to each
overlap, which is not connect by control points or linked with image
positions.

=item B<--min-overlap=NUM>

By default B<geocpset> takes only image pairs into account which overlap
more than 10 %. If you have very narrow overlaps you can decrease this
value to take also such small overlaps into account, e.g.
B<--min-overlap=1> 

=item B<-h|--help>

Display help.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

B<geocpset> was written by Thomas Modes. This manpages was generated by
converting the wiki-page on L<http://wiki.panotools.org/> to pod-format by
Andreas Metzler.
