=for
Copyright 2008 Cyril Brulebois <cyril.brulebois@enst-bretagne.fr>
Licensed under the same terms as the hugin package itself.
=end


=head1 NAME

hugin_hdrmerge - Merge overlapping images

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<hugin_hdrmerge> [options] B<-o> I<output.exr> I<input-files>


=head1 DESCRIPTION

TODO.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-o> I<prefix>

Output file

=item B<-m> I<mode>

Merge mode, can be one of: avg, avg_slow, khan (default), if avg, no
B<-i>, B<-s>, or B<-d> options apply

=item B<-i> I<iter>

Number of iterations to execute (default is 1)

=item B<-c>

Only consider pixels that are defined in all images (avg mode only)

=item B<-s> I<file>

Debug files to save each iteration, can be one of:

=over

=item a - all debug files (can only be used alone)

=item w - calculated weights from each iteration

=item r - result image from each iteration

=item s - source images before processing

=back

If verbose >= 3, all debug files are output unless specified


=item B<-a> I<calcs>

Apply one or more advanced calculations, can be one or more of:

=over

=item b - biasing weights logarithmically

=item c - choose pixels with highest weight instead of averaging
(overrides options B<-a> I<b> and B<-a> I<d>)

=item d - choose a pixel with the highest weight instead of averaging
when all pixel weights are within 10% of each other

=item h - favour a high signal to noise ratio

=item i - ignore alpha channel

=back

=for TODO: A blank line seems to be missing here.
=end

=item B<-e>

Export each initial weight to <input_file_paths>_iw.<ext>

=item B<-l>

Load a previously exported initial weight with respect to the input
file names

NOTE: if both B<-e> and B<-l> options are on, the program will
calculate and save the initial weights, then wait until user indicates
that it can continue by loading the previously saved weights

=item B<-v>

Verbose, print progress messages, repeat for even more verbose output

=item B<-h>

Display help summary.

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

Written by Jing Jin. Also contains contributions from Pablo d'Angelo, Douglas Wilkins, Ippei Ukai, Ed Halley, Bruno Postle, Gerry Patterson and Brent Townshend.


This man page was written by Cyril Brulebois
<cyril.brulebois@enst-bretagne.fr> and is licensed under the same
terms as the hugin package itself.
