=for
Copyright 2008 Cyril Brulebois <cyril.brulebois@enst-bretagne.fr>
Licensed under the same terms as the hugin package itself.
=end


=head1 NAME

nona - Stitch a panorama image

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<nona> [options] B<-o> I<output> I<project_file> (image files)


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<nona> uses the transform function from PanoTools, the stitching
itself is quite simple, no seam feathering is done.

Only the non-antialiasing interpolators of PanoTools are supported.

The following output formats (B<n> option of PanoTools B<p> script
line) are supported:

=over

=item JPEG, TIFF, PNG  : Single image formats without feathered blending

=item JPEG_m, TIFF_m, PNG_m   : multiple tiff files

=item TIFF_multilayer : Multilayer tiff files, readable by The Gimp 2.0

=back


=head1 OPTIONS

General options:

=over

=item B<-c>

Create coordinate images (only TIFF_m output)

=item B<-v>

Quiet, do not output progress indicators

=item B<-d>

print detailed output for GPU processing

=item B<-g>

perform image remapping on the GPU

=back


The following options can be used to override settings in the project file:

=over

=item B<-i> I<num>

Remap only image with number num (can be specified multiple times)

=item B<-m> I<str>

Set output file format (TIFF, TIFF_m, TIFF_multilayer, EXR, EXR_m, JPEG, JPEG_m, PNG, PNG_m)

=item B<-r> I<ldr>/I<hdr>

Set output mode:

=over

=item ldr - keep original bit depth and response

=item hdr - merge to hdr

=back

=for TODO: A blank line seems to be missing here.
=end

=item B<-e> I<exposure>

Set exposure for ldr mode

=item B<-p> I<TYPE>

Pixel type of the output. Can be one of:

=over

=item UINT8   8 bit unsigned integer

=item UINT16  16 bit unsigned integer

=item INT16   16 bit signed integer

=item UINT32  32 bit unsigned integer

=item INT32   32 bit signed integer

=item FLOAT   32 bit floating point

=back

=for TODO: A blank line seems to be missing here.
=end

=item B<-z|--compression>

Set compression type. Possible options for tiff output:

=over

=item NONE      no compression

=item PACKBITS  packbits compression

=item LZW       LZW compression

=item DEFLATE   deflate compression

For JPEG output set quality number

=back

=item B<--ignore-exposure>

Don't correct exposure. (This doesn't work with the -e switch)

=item B<--save-intermediate-images>

Saves also the intermediate images (only when output is is TIFF, PNG or JPEG)

=item B<--intermediate-suffix=SUFFIX>

Suffix for intermediate images

=item B<--create-exposure-layers>

Create all exposure layers (this will always use TIFF)

=item B<--clip-exposure[=lower cutoff:upper cutoff]>

Mask automatically all dark and bright pixels. Optionally you can specify the limits for the lower and upper cutoff (specify in range 0...1, relative the full range)

=back



=head1 AUTHORS

Written by Pablo d'Angelo. Also contains contributions from Douglas Wilkins, Ippei Ukai, Ed Halley, Bruno Postle, Gerry Patterson and Brent Townshend.


This man page was written by Cyril Brulebois
<cyril.brulebois@enst-bretagne.fr> and updated by Terry Duell and is licensed under the same
terms as the hugin package itself.
