=for
Copyright 2008 Cyril Brulebois <cyril.brulebois@enst-bretagne.fr>
Licensed under the same terms as the hugin package itself.
=end


=head1 NAME

vig_optimize - Optimise photometric parameters

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vig_optimize> [options] B<-o> I<output.pto> I<input.pto>


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Photometric calculation can be performed on the command-line with the
vig_optimize tool. This functionally is configured via 'v' variable lines in
the .pto project file in a similar way to the autooptimiser tool: 

The camera response curve is simplified using the EMoR sensor model which
reduces the variation to five numbers, these are the Ra, Rb, Rc, Rd & Re image
(i) parameters (the default values of 0.0 are equivalent to an 'average'
generic sensor).

The vignetting model is represented by a polynomial with four parameters: Va
(this is always 1.0 and doesn't need to be optimised) and Vb, Vc & Vd (which
default to 0.0 - equivalent to no vignetting). The vignetting centre can also
be different from the geometrical centre, this is specified by Vx & Vy (both
default to 0.0).

Exposure (EV) is represented by a single value Ev (defaults 0.0, equivalent to
no-change).

The white balance is represented by multipliers for the red and blue channels
Er and Eb (the defaults of 1.0 are equivalent to no-change). 

A typical 'v' variable line configuration would look like this, i.e. optimise camera response curve and vignetting for image 0 and exposure for images 1, 2, 3 and 4:

  v Ra0 Rb0 Rc0 Rd0 Re0 Vb0 Vc0 Vd0
  v Ev1 Ev2 Ev3 Ev4

(vignetting centre and white balance are left unchanged) 


=head1 OPTIONS

General options:

=over

=item B<-o> I<file>

Write results to output project

=item B<-v>

Verbose, print progress messages

=item B<-p> I<n>

Number of points to extract

=item B<-r>

Extract random point (faster, but less accurate)

=item B<-s> I<level>

Work on downscaled images, every step halves width and height

=item B<-h>

Display help summary.

=back


Expert and debugging options:

=over

=item B<-i> I<file>

Read corresponding points from file

=item B<-w> I<file>

Dump corresponding points to file

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

Written by Pablo d'Angelo. Also contains contributions from Douglas Wilkins, Ippei Ukai, Ed Halley, Bruno Postle, Gerry Patterson and Brent Townshend.


This man page was written by Cyril Brulebois
<cyril.brulebois@enst-bretagne.fr> and is licensed under the same
terms as the hugin package itself.
